{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 Times New Roman;}}\fs24
\pard\qc\b\fs32 UASIN GISHU SMART WASTE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM TEST PLAN DOCUMENT\b0\fs24\par
\pard\qc Project: UGSWMS (Firebase + Flutter: Web Admin, Mobile Driver, Mobile Resident)\par
\pard\qc Document Type: Test Plan\par
\pard\qc Prepared By: __________________________\par
\pard\qc Registration No: _______________________\par
\pard\qc Supervisor: ___________________________\par
\pard\qc Institution: __________________________\par
\pard\qc Date: _________________________________\par
\par
\pard\b Table of Contents\b0\par
\pard (Generate automatically in Word)\par
\par
\pard\b 1.0 Introduction\b0\par
\pard UGSWMS is a smart waste management system consisting of a Flutter Web Admin dashboard, a Flutter Mobile Driver application, and a Flutter Mobile Resident (Customer) application. The backend is powered by Firebase Authentication and Firestore, with optional external integrations such as Google Maps, Hugging Face (chatbot), and Daraja/M-Pesa (payments?currently deferred).\par
\pard This Test Plan defines the overall testing strategy, objectives, and step-by-step procedures used to validate the system against the Software Requirements Specification (SRS) and the System Design Specification (SDS).\par
\par
\pard\b 1.1 Goals and Objectives\b0\par
\pard 1. Validate secure login/logout and role-based access control for Admin, Driver, and Resident.\par
\pard 2. Verify IoT simulation updates occur every 5?10 seconds and trigger alerts only after persistence thresholds to reduce false alerts.\par
\pard 3. Verify real-time dashboard displays bins with correct color/state and updates smoothly.\par
\pard 4. Validate truck allocation suggests nearest trucks and admin can assign routes.\par
\pard 5. Validate route tracking and driver status updates and that the dashboard reflects completion.\par
\pard 6. Validate notifications are delivered and rate-limited.\par
\pard 7. Validate reports and analytics (excluding payments if deferred).\par
\pard 8. Confirm UI is responsive and stable (no overflows, no crashes) and typical actions complete within ~3 seconds under normal conditions.\par
\par
\pard\b 1.2 Statement of Scope\b0\par
\pard In-scope features to test (SRS Functional Requirements):\par
\pard 1. Authentication & RBAC (Admin / Driver / Resident)\par
\pard 2. Driver management (driver details, availability)\par
\pard 3. IoT bin simulation (5?10 sec updates, thresholds, persistence alerts, suppression when assigned)\par
\pard 4. Real-time admin dashboard (smooth updates, auto refresh)\par
\pard 5. Truck allocation (suggest top 3 nearest trucks)\par
\pard 6. Route tracking & visualization (driver sees routes; route updates dynamically)\par
\pard 7. AI chatbot (Hugging Face integration)\par
\pard 8. Notifications (driver tasks, admin alerts; rate limiting)\par
\pard 9. Reports & analytics (driver performance, service efficiency, trends; export optional)\par
\pard In-scope features from SDS Architecture/Modules:\par
\pard 1. Flutter web admin dashboard + Flutter mobile apps\par
\pard 2. Firestore collections (users, drivers, bins, notifications, reports, system_logs, etc.)\par
\pard 3. External APIs (Google Maps, Hugging Face, Daraja/M-Pesa)\par
\pard Out of scope (for this phase):\par
\pard 1. Digital payments via Daraja/M-Pesa (deferred; stubs/UI placeholders only)\par
\pard 2. Integration with real IoT sensors (simulation only)\par
\par
\pard\b 1.3 Major Constraints\b0\par
\pard 1. IoT is simulated; accuracy depends on simulation design, not hardware sensors.\par
\pard 2. Free-tier limits for Firebase/Google Maps may affect load/stress tests.\par
\pard 3. Internet connectivity affects real-time dashboards and API calls.\par
\pard 4. If payment is deferred, revenue reports are not testable.\par
\par
\pard\b 2.0 Test Plan\b0\par
\par
\pard\b 2.1 Software (SCI?s) to be Tested\b0\par
\pard 1. UGSWMS Admin Web App (Flutter Web): bins dashboard, alerts, assignments, reports.\par
\pard 2. UGSWMS Driver Mobile App (Flutter Android): assigned routes, status updates, task history, notifications.\par
\pard 3. UGSWMS Resident/Customer Mobile App (Flutter Android): signup/login, request service, history, chatbot, notifications.\par
\pard 4. Backend services: Firebase Auth, Firestore, Cloud Functions/Workers endpoints (where applicable), FCM.\par
\pard 5. External APIs: Google Maps, Hugging Face (Daraja deferred).\par
\pard Explicit exclusions: Payment integration tests (Daraja) ? deferred.\par
\par
\pard\b 2.2 Testing Strategy\b0\par
\pard Testing will follow a staged strategy: unit tests, integration tests, validation tests, and high-order/system tests.\par
\par
\pard\b 2.2.1 Unit Testing\b0\par
\pard Targets: validators, route progress calculations, bin fill simulation logic, status mapping.\par
\pard Approach: Dart unit tests (flutter test) on pure logic functions.\par
\pard [Image Placeholder: Unit test output / flutter test results]\par
\par
\pard\b 2.2.2 Integration Testing\b0\par
\pard Targets: Auth + Firestore profile creation; real-time streams; notifications; reports queries and indexes.\par
\pard Approach: Local dev + Firebase emulator (optional) + staging Firestore project.\par
\par
\pard\b 2.2.3 Validation Testing\b0\par
\pard Run end-to-end acceptance flows aligned with SDS activity diagram.\par
\par
\pard\b 2.2.4 High-Order (System) Testing\b0\par
\pard Recovery testing, security testing, stress testing, performance testing, alpha/beta testing.\par
\par
\pard\b 2.3 Testing Resources and Staffing\b0\par
\pard Test Lead: __________________\par
\pard Developer/Tester: __________________\par
\pard Supervisor Reviewer: __________________\par
\pard External tester (optional): __________________\par
\pard Devices (Android phones, admin web PC, internet): __________________\par
\par
\pard\b 2.4 Test Work Products\b0\par
\pard Test Plan, Test Case Checklist, Bug List, Evidence Pack, Final Test Summary Report.\par
\par
\pard\b 2.5 Test Record Keeping\b0\par
\pard /test_evidence/admin/\par
\pard /test_evidence/driver/\par
\pard /test_evidence/resident/\par
\pard /test_evidence/firestore/\par
\pard Maintain TEST_LOG.md with date/time, tester, case ID, result, notes, evidence path.\par
\par
\pard\b 2.6 Test Metrics\b0\par
\pard Coverage, pass rate, defect density, mean time to fix, performance metrics (dashboard latency, login time, notification reliability).\par
\par
\pard\b 2.7 Testing Tools and Environment\b0\par
\pard Flutter SDK: ________\par
\pard Firebase project: ________\par
\pard Firestore console access: yes/no\par
\pard Google Maps API key: yes/no\par
\pard Hugging Face API key: yes/no\par
\par
\pard\b 2.8 Test Schedule\b0\par
\pard Unit Testing: 2?3 days (____ to ____)\par
\pard Integration Testing: 4?6 days (____ to ____)\par
\pard Validation Testing: 2?4 days (____ to ____)\par
\pard System Testing: 3?5 days (____ to ____)\par
\pard Final Report: 1?2 days (____ to ____)\par
\par
\pard\b 3.0 Test Procedure\b0\par
\par
\pard\b 3.1 Software to be Tested\b0\par
\pard Same as Section 2.1.\par
\par
\pard\b 3.2 Testing Procedure\b0\par
\pard General steps: confirm environment, seed data, execute steps, capture evidence, record outcome.\par
\par
\pard\b 3.2.1 Unit Test Cases\b0\par
\pard U-01: Password Validator (min 8, upper, lower, number, special, no spaces).\par
\pard U-02: Kenyan Phone Normalizer (+2547XXXXXXXX / +2541XXXXXXXX).\par
\pard [Image Placeholder: Unit test results]\par
\par
\pard\b 3.2.2 Integration Testing\b0\par
\pard IT-01: Resident signup creates Firestore user doc.\par
\pard IT-02: Admin assigns route -> driver receives task.\par
\pard IT-03: Bin simulation updates every 5?10 seconds.\par
\pard [Image Placeholder: Register screen filled]\par
\pard [Image Placeholder: Firestore users doc]\par
\pard [Image Placeholder: Admin assignment modal]\par
\pard [Image Placeholder: Driver tasks list]\par
\par
\pard\b 3.2.3 Validation Testing\b0\par
\pard VT-01: Admin real-time dashboard behavior.\par
\pard VT-02: Driver route execution updates system status.\par
\pard VT-03: Reports and analytics (excluding revenue).\par
\pard [Image Placeholder: Map states]\par
\pard [Image Placeholder: Alerts panel]\par
\pard [Image Placeholder: Reports overview]\par
\par
\pard\b 3.2.4 High-Order (System) Tests\b0\par
\pard Recovery testing, security testing, stress testing, performance testing, alpha/beta testing.\par
\par
\pard\b 3.3 Testing Resources and Staffing\b0\par
\pard (Repeat staffing and devices list; fill in actuals.)\par
\par
\pard\b 3.4 Test Work Products\b0\par
\pard Test Log, Evidence screenshots, Bug list, Final summary report.\par
\par
\pard\b 3.5 Test Log Template\b0\par
\pard Test Case ID: ______\par
\pard Date/Time: ______\par
\pard Tester: ______\par
\pard Build Version: ______\par
\pard Environment: ______\par
\pard Result: PASS / FAIL\par
\pard Notes: ______\par
\pard Evidence Path: ______\par
\par
\pard\b Appendix A: Screenshot Placeholders Checklist\b0\par
\pard Admin login success\par
\pard Driver login success\par
\pard Resident signup success\par
\pard Firestore /users/\{uid\} doc proof\par
\pard Bin simulation timestamps\par
\pard Alert persistence proof\par
\pard Assignment creation + driver receives task\par
\pard Route completion updates admin\par
\pard Reports page metrics\par
\pard Firestore indexes list (if created)\par
\par
\pard\b Appendix B: Deferred Items\b0\par
\pard Payments (Daraja/M-Pesa) tests deferred.\par
\pard Real IoT sensor integration deferred.\par
\par
}